

# Using YOMM2 without macros

YOMM2 provides a public interface that does not require using macros. This
can be useful in certain situations, for example when combining open methods
and templates - see the [templates tutorial](templates_tutorial.md).

The following code is a partial rewrite of the synopsis example that does not
use any macros.


```c++
#include <yorel/yomm2/core.hpp>

using namespace yorel::yomm2;

class Animal {
  public:
    virtual ~Animal() {}
};

class Dog : public Animal {};
class Bulldog : public Dog {};

use_classes<Animal, Dog, Bulldog> use_animal_classes;
```


The new `use_classes` template takes any number of
classes, and infers the inheritance relationships they may have between them.
Instantiating a `use_classes` object registers the
classes, in the same fashion as - but more conveniently than - a series of
invocations of `register_class`.


```c++
struct kick_key;
using kick_method = method<kick_key, std::string(virtual_<Animal&>)>;
```


A YOMM2 method is implemented as a singleton of an instance of the `method`
template. The second argument is obviously the signature of the method -
including the return type and the `virtual_` markers.

What about the first argument? Its role is to separate different methods with
the same signature. Consider a more animal-friendly method:


```c++
struct feed_key;
using feed_method = method<feed_key, std::string(virtual_<Animal&>)>;
```


In the absence of the first parameter, `kick` and `feed` would be the same
method. Together, the two arguments provide a unique key for the method.
Since the `kick_key` and `feed_key` types are local to the current namespace,
this scheme also protects against accidental interference across namespaces.

The same key can be used for more than one method, provided that the
signatures are different. The good practice is to use the same key for all
the methods in a namespace that have the same name.

Now let's add a definition to the method:


```c++
std::string kick_dog(Dog& dog) {
    return "bark";
}

kick_method::add_function<kick_dog> add_kick_dog;
```


Note that the name of the function serving as a method definition must be
unique; in presence of overloads, we would have no means of picking the
appropriate function. Function templates and explicit specialization can also
be used for this purpose.

What about `next`? The constructor of `add_function` can be passed a pointer
to a function that will be set to the function's next definition by
`update_methods`. The pointer type is available in the method as `next_type`.


```c++
kick_method::next_type kick_bulldog_next;

std::string kick_bulldog(Bulldog& dog) {
    return kick_bulldog_next(dog) + " and bite back";
}

kick_method::add_function<kick_bulldog> add_kick_bulldog(&kick_bulldog_next);
```


We can now call the method. The class contains a static function object named
`fn`, whose `operator()` has the signature specified in the method
declaration, minus the `virtual_<>` decorators.


```c++
BOOST_AUTO_TEST_CASE(test_synopsis_functions_no_macros) {
    update_methods();

    std::unique_ptr<Animal> snoopy = std::make_unique<Dog>();
    BOOST_TEST(kick_method::fn(*snoopy) == "bark");

    std::unique_ptr<Animal> hector = std::make_unique<Bulldog>();
    BOOST_TEST(kick_method::fn(*hector) == "bark and bite back");
}
```


## A peek inside the two main YOMM2 macros

The code in the example above is essentially what
`YOMM2_DECLARE`/`declare_method` and `YOMM2_DEFINE`/`define_method` generate.

In addition, `declare_method` generates an ordinary inline function that
forwards to the `fn` object nested inside the method. Importantly, ordinary
functions can be overloaded, and their address can be taken, which is not the
case for function objects.

`declare_method` also declares a guide function that enables `define_method`
to find the method being specialized.

`define_method` wraps the function body inside a class, along with a `next`
static variable. It fakes a call to a guide function named after the method,
passing it `declval` arguments for the definition's parameter list. The
compiler performs overload resolution, and the macro uses `decltype` to
extract the result type, i.e the method's class, and registers the definition
and the `next` pointer with `add_function`.

In the process, both macros need to create identifiers for the various static
objects, and the name of the function inside the definition wrapper class.
These symbols are generated by two macros; in both cases, the symbols are
copiously obfuscated, to minimize the risk of collision with the user's
symbols.

- `YOMM2_GENSYM` expands to a new symbol each time it is called. It is used
  for the static "registrar" objects.

- `YOMM2_SYMBOL(name)` expands to an obfuscated version of `name`. It is used
  for the method key and the guide function.

Both macros are defined by header file `yorel/yomm2/symbols.hpp`.




## Trimming verbosity

The "synopsis" example is quite verbose. Many of the names used in it are
pure noise. They are use to define static objects, for the sole purpose of
executing their constructor. They are never referenced explicitly. In a
language like Python, we would simply call functions at file scope; C++ does
not allow that, or only by ruse and abuse.

Let's rewrite the example, this time using the symbol-generation macros, and
a helper.




(`Animal` classes same as before)


```c++
#include <yorel/yomm2/core.hpp>
#include <yorel/yomm2/symbols.hpp>

using namespace yorel::yomm2;

use_classes<Animal, Dog, Bulldog> YOMM2_GENSYM;

struct YOMM2_SYMBOL(kick);

using kick_method = method<YOMM2_SYMBOL(kick), std::string(virtual_<Animal&>)>;
```


`add_function` is a workhorse that is intended to be used directly only by
`define_method`. YOMM2 has another mechanism that is a bit more high level:
*definition containers*.

A definition container is a struct that, at the minimum, contains a static
function named `fn`. Containers are added to methods via the
`add_definition` nested type:


```c++
struct kick_dog {
    static std::string fn(Dog& dog) { return "bark"; }
};

kick_method::add_definition<kick_dog> YOMM2_GENSYM;
```


This may not seem like a huge improvement, until we need a `next` function.
If the container has a static member variable called `next`, and it is of the
appropriate type, `add_definition` will pick it up for `update_methods` to
fill. Static member variables are a bit clumsy, because, unlike functions,
they must be declared inside the class, and defined outside. Methods have a
nested CRTP helper to inject a `next` into a container.


```c++
struct kick_bulldog : kick_method::next<kick_bulldog> {
    static std::string fn(Bulldog& dog) {
        return next(dog) + " and bite back";
    }
};

kick_method::add_definition<kick_bulldog> YOMM2_GENSYM;
```


Do you have doubts about the value of definition containers? Here are two
more reasons why you should use them.

1. Containers are the core of the best pattern I could come up with to
   implement templatized methods and definitions.

2. In the future, additional functionality may be added to containers.

The rest of the example is as before.


